Our directive is looking really great.
We're almost there but there's one other thing I want to add.
One functionality I want to add right now it's dynamic in a way that we can mouse over and then move
the mouse away.
But we can't decide which colors get used.
Now if that were a directive we want to ship with like say a third party package we're offering the
user the developer using this directive should be able to dynamically set the value.
Maybe we even want to do this on our own app because the color we want to set changes depending on some
other parameters in our app.
Right now the color is hardcoded in they're transparent by default and blue if we mouse over it.
So that is something we can improve and we can improve it with a tool we already learned custom property
binding as a side note custom and binding also works in directives.
But you probably won't use that that often.
So how can we use custom property binding then let's add two properties to which we find our at it with
input here and I'll name the first one.
Default color and set it equal to a string and even assign a default color which is transparent.
Now an input of Gord's needs to be imported from an Anglo core.
I'll duplicate this and I'll set this to highlight color that will be blue by default.
So we do have some default values to use but that can be overwritten from outside.
So now by default here I will assign y highlight color for initially setting this and in y host lessness
your.
If I mouse over it I will assign my highlight color to me your it should be by default color at the
top of course.
So DiVall color color when we initialize this and then highlight color once the mouse over does and
then default color again once we move the mouse away.
So your default color.
So with days it should still work just the way as it did before but now we can actually bind this from
outside.
So in our app component where we used to better highlight directive we can now blind to default color
and maybe set this to Yellow be a string though yellow and we can point to highlight color and pass
a string which could be read.
And now if we save this notice that app better highlight that directive itself the name is not enclosed
in square brackets.
Now you see it's red and yellow here though we also detect a bug initially before we mouse over it's
so white.
The reason for this is when we assign a default color here it's just not said here.
So to prevent this from happening we can simply do is we initialize it here an engine in it it's debt
that's all before anything has been rendered.
But after our values here are a table available.
So here we can set this background color to just default this default color and now it should work fine.
Now we have yellow by default.
So this now works and now we are able to overwrite this.
There are a couple of interesting things we can observe regarding the way we passed down these values
though.
The first interesting thing is that we have two extra directives like looking things on the paragraph
and that's just property binding.
Now how does Engler know if we want to bind to a property of paragraph which of course doesn't have
a default color or to a property of our directive.
The answer is it just figures that out.
It simply checks our own directives and so on first before it reaches the custom the native properties
of elements.
That's an important take away.
We can bind to properties of our own directives by simply placing them on the same element.
These properties I mean enclosed in square brackets of course.
Now for N-G class you'll see that somehow the directive itself is in close to square brackets.
And that's a typical use case especially if you only have one property to bind or at least one main
property then you can provide an alias and we can do this year for let's say the highlight color and
set is equal to your directive selector.
So app better highlight in this case.
If I set this as an alias for the highlight color.
Now this assignment here won't work any more so I will remove it instead.
Now I can enclose my main directive into square brackets and set this equal to read.
So now we should still see yellow and red.
But now we're having the same style of enclosing the directive itself.
And it's important to understand that this is only an option.
You can set such to such an alias but that's not something you have to do.
And by default as you saw before that directive name is not enclosed in square brackets that really
only happens if you want to bind to a property which has the same name or alias like your directive
selector when I everything about how we pass down data when every thing which is true about property
binding in general if you passed down a string like now we use square brackets and then single quotation
marks while you can take a shortcut.
You can remove the square brackets and remove quotation marks.
And that is a special case.
If you are passing down a string you can do.
You can add property binding without square brackets if you don't also omit the single quotation marks
between the double quotation marks and that should work as it did before.
No error you can use this.
You will see me use this later in the course with official angular directive.
Be careful that if you use it it's really clear that this is property binding that no one thinks that
this could be a real attribute existing for the element you place it on.
Then there is absolutely fine to be used and this is our directive finished with some extra features
like host listener host binding and dynamically setting values from outside